docs: edit binding-syntax doc (#38773)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/binding-syntax.md

To see attributes versus DOM properties in a functioning app, see the <live-example name="binding-syntax"></live-example> especially for binding syntax.

#### Example 2: a disabled button

A button's `disabled` property is `false` by default so the button is enabled.

When you add the `disabled` attribute, you are initializing the button's `disabled` property to `true` which disables the button.

```html
<button disabled>Test Button</button>
```

Adding and removing the `disabled` attribute disables and enables the button.
However, the value of the attribute is irrelevant, which is why you cannot enable a button by writing `<button disabled="false">Still Disabled</button>`.

To control the state of the button, set the `disabled` property instead.

Property and attribute comparison

Though you could technically set the `[attr.disabled]` attribute binding, the values are different in that the property binding must be a boolean value, while its corresponding attribute binding relies on whether the value is `null` or not.
Consider the following:

```html
<input [disabled]="condition ? true : false">
<input [attr.disabled]="condition ? 'disabled' : null">
```

> The first line, which uses the `disabled` property, uses a Boolean value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first line, which uses the `disabled` property, uses a boolean value.
```
boolean typically wouldn't be capitalized when talking about javascript/typescript (here and elsewhere)

# Binding syntax

> Data binding coordinates the application data values that users see.

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
Data binding automatically keeps your page up-to-date based on your application's state.
```

You use data binding to specify things such as the source of an image, the state of a button, or data for a particular user.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

See the <live-example></live-example> for a working example containing the code snippets in this guide.

</div>

## Data binding and HTML

> On its own, HTML modifies elements by setting element attributes with string constants.

Reviewer: The phrase "HTML modifies elements" is a bit off since "HTML" isn't the party performing the action. Instead it would be something along the lines of "Developers can customize HTML by specifying attributes with string values."

```html
<div class="special">Plain old HTML</div>
<img src="images/item.png">
<button disabled>Save</button>
```

Use data binding to control things like the state of a button:

<code-example path="binding-syntax/src/app/app.component.html" region="disabled-button" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Notice that the binding is to the `disabled` property of the button's DOM element, not the attribute.
Data binding works with properties of DOM elements, components, and directives, not HTML attributes.

{@a html-attribute-vs-dom-property}

### HTML attributes and DOM properties

Angular binding distinguishes between HTML attributes and DOM properties.

Attributes initialize DOM properties and you can configure them to modify an element's behavior.
Properties are features of DOM nodes.

* A few HTML attributes have 1:1 mapping to properties; for example, `id`.

* Some HTML attributes don't have corresponding properties; for example, `aria-*`.

* Some DOM properties don't have corresponding attributes; for example, `textContent`.

Property values can change.
Attribute values can't, with one exception:

> You can change attributes with `setAttribute()`, which re-initializes corresponding DOM properties.

Reviewer: I might omit this bit. In reality, both properties and attributes can be changed at any time, it's just that the way you change them is different (directly setting properties vs. using `setAttribute` or `removeAttribute`). In many cases, setting _either_ the attribute or the property will update the other (for tabindex, id, name, disabled, checked, readonly, and probably more)

<div class="alert is-important">

Remember that HTML attributes and DOM properties are different things, even when they have the same name.

</div>

> Template binding works with properties and events, not attributes.

Reviewer: This statement isn't 100% accurate; you can set up a binding on an attribute, it just uses a slightly different syntax (`[attr.whatever]` instead of `[whatever]`)

Author: Thanks. I've removed this sentence.

# Binding syntax

Data-binding coordinates the application data values that users see.

> Use data-binding to specify things such as the source of an image, the state of a button, or data for a particular user.

Reviewer 2: Marking this here, but it occurs elsewhere (and probably throughout our docs :) ). I think saying "You <verb>" is better than just "<verb>". It reads more casually, and also brings the reader in. So instead of:

Use databinding...

We should say

You use data-binding.

Also, I just realized: do we need to hyphenate the terms data binding and event binding? I don't think it's necessary myself. And editors that I've worked with often say: "When in doubt, remove the hyphen." Thoughts?

Author: Ok, switching from imperative to indicative.

Regarding hyphens, I'm all for leaving them out when possible, especially when they don't clarify meaning.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

See the <live-example></live-example> for a working example containing the code snippets in this guide.

</div>

## Data-binding and HTML

On its own, HTML modifies elements by setting element attributes with string constants.

> In the following example, `class`, `src`, and `disabled` modify the `<div>`, `<img>`, and `<button>` respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, `class`, `src`, and `disabled` modify the `<div>`, `<img>`, and `<button>` elements respectively.
```

```html
<div class="special">Plain old HTML</div>
<img src="images/item.png">
<button disabled>Save</button>
```

Use data-binding to control things like the state of a button:

<code-example path="binding-syntax/src/app/app.component.html" region="disabled-button" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Notice that the binding is to the `disabled` property of the button's DOM element, not the attribute.
Data-binding works with properties of DOM elements, components, and directives, not HTML attributes.

{@a html-attribute-vs-dom-property}

> ### HTML attribute vs. DOM property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HTML attributes and DOM properties
```
I'm not a fan of `vs.` or `versus`. It's not a competition, after all. :)

> The distinction between an HTML attribute and a DOM property is key to understanding
> how Angular binding works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To understand how Angular binding works, you must understand the distinction between an HTML attribute and a DOM property.
```
Rewriting to make the verbs more active and avoid `is`.

Question: Don't we ask our users to have some understanding of HTML and the DOM? 

I bring this up because we don't explain typescript very often, and that' equally critical to using Angular effectively. But we often act as though our users don't understand HTML or the DOM.

Author: Agreed. DOM, properties, and attributes seem foundational concepts that already have excellent free resources. There was some concern at a point a couple years ago about readers not understanding these concepts and we started explaining them, which may occasionally be appropriate if it's something obscure, but I agree that we don't have to do things like explain what DOM means each time we use it.

Author: I changed this section to read:

```
Angular binding distinguishes between HTML attributes and DOM properties.

HTML attributes are values that you can configure to modify an element's behavior.
Properties are features of DOM nodes.
```

What do you think? Still too granular?

HTML attributes are values that you can configure to modify an element's behavior.
Browsers create DOM, or Document Object Model, nodes from HTML and these nodes have properties.

* A few HTML attributes have 1:1 mapping to properties; for example, `id`.

* Some HTML attributes don't have corresponding properties; for example, `aria-*`.

* Some DOM properties don't have corresponding attributes; for example, `textContent`.

> It is important to remember that HTML attributes and DOM properties are different things, even when they have the same name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="alert is-important">

Remember that HTML attributes and DOM properties are different things, even when they have the same name.

</div>
```

Template binding works with properties and events, not attributes.
In Angular, the only role of HTML attributes is to initialize element and directive state.

> When you write a data-binding, you're dealing exclusively with the DOM properties and events of the target object.

Reviewer 2: I'm becoming more and more convinced to remove the hyphen: `data binding`.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> The task of attributes is to initialize DOM properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attributes initialize DOM properties.
```

Attempted rewrite for brevity.

> The task of attributes is to initialize DOM properties.

Reviewer 2: I think this note should be further up (around line 38) where we talk about attributes and properties.

Also, consider removing the note. Users sometimes skip over them. (Even though they shouldn't!)

Author: Moved up and incorporated into the copy about attributes and properties. Removed alert styling.

> Property values can change; attribute values can't, with one exception.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Property values can change. Attribute values can't, with one exception:
```

You can change attributes with `setAttribute()`, which re-initializes corresponding DOM properties.

</div>

> #### Example 1: an `<input>`

Reviewer 2: Four levels of headings is getting awfully deep. Just noting this.

Author: `<h4>`s also don't show up in the TOC.

Reviewer 2: Let's consider using level 4 headings with caution. But I don't think this needs to hold up this PR.

When the browser renders `<input type="text" value="Sarah">`, it creates a
corresponding DOM node with a `value` property and initializes that `value` to "Sarah".

```html
<input type="text" value="Sarah">
```

> When the user enters "Sally" into the `<input>`, the DOM element `value` property becomes "Sally".

Reviewer 2: Another note: let's talk about when to use quote marks. I dislike them due to their overuse. (So in this case, "Sally" would become `Sally`).

Not a required change.

```html
<button disabled>Test Button</button>
```

Adding and removing the `disabled` attribute disables and enables the button.
However, the value of the attribute is irrelevant, which is why you cannot enable a button by writing `<button disabled="false">Still Disabled</button>`.

To control the state of the button, set the `disabled` property instead.

<div class="callout is-helpful">

  <header>Property and attribute comparison</header>

  Though you could technically set the `[attr.disabled]` attribute binding, the values are different in that the property binding must be a boolean value, while its corresponding attribute binding relies on whether the value is `null` or not.
  Consider the following:

  ```html
  <input [disabled]="condition ? true : false">
  <input [attr.disabled]="condition ? 'disabled' : null">
  ```

  The first line, which uses the `disabled` property, uses a Boolean value.
  The second line, which uses the disabled attribute checks for `null`.

  Generally, use property binding over attribute binding as a Boolean value is easy to read, the syntax is shorter, and a property is more performant.

> </div>

Reviewer 2: I'm wary of large notes like this. Let's consider moving the content into its own section.

To see the `disabled` button example in a functioning app, see the <live-example></live-example>.
This example shows you how to toggle the disabled property from the component.

## Types of data-binding

Angular provides three categories of data-binding according to the direction of data flow:

> * From the source-to-view
> * From view-to-source
> * In a two-way sequence of view-to-source-to-view

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* From the source to the view
* From the view to the source
* In a two-way sequence of view to source to view
```

  </tr>
</table>

Binding types other than interpolation have a target name to the left of the equal sign.
The target of a binding is a property or event, which you surround with square brackets, `[]`, parentheses, `()`, or both, `[()]`.

The binding punctuation of `[]`, `()`, `[()]`, and the prefix specify the direction of data flow.

* Use `[]` to bind from source to view.
* Use `()` to bind from view to source.
* Use `[()]` to bind in a two way sequence of view to source to view.

Place the expression or statement to the right of the equal sign within double quotes, `""`.
For more information see [Interpolation](guide/interpolation) and [Template statements](guide/template-statements).

## Binding types and targets

> The target of a data binding can be a property, an event, or sometimes an attribute name.

Reviewer: I would omit the "sometimes" here.

  </tr>
</table>

Binding types other than interpolation have a target name to the left of the equal sign.
The target of a binding is a property or event, which you surround with square brackets, `[]`, parentheses, `()`, or both, `[()]`.

> Alternatively, you can specify a target with the prefix `bind-`, `on-`, or `bindon-`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe delete this line. Let's highlight the preferred way of doing this?

  </tr>
</table>

> <!-- What is a "public member of a source directive" in plain English? And where does it make sense to put this?  -->

Reviewer: "Public member" is a pretty standard term. A member is a property or method on the class, and public means that it's part of the public API of that class (not `private` or `protected`).
